---
layout: post
title: Union of Random Hyperbolic Graphs 
date: 1990-01-01 17:39:00
tags: formatting diagrams
description: Proposed my Prof. Maria Serna (UPC)
mermaid:
  enabled: true
  zoomable: true
---

This brief (and unfinished) post describes the basis of ongoing work regarding the properties of the union of RHGs, a type of graphs that can repsresent real social networks with high fidelity. The social network similarity is corroborated by the power-law degree distribution observed in RHGs. This distribution manifests within a specific parameter range of the model. In this regime, where the degree distribution conforms to a power law with an exponent between 2 and 3, the emergence of a giant component is guaranteed almost surely (a.a.s.). We want to explore various characteristics of the union of hyperbolic graphs, such as the size of the $$k$$-core, the number of connected components, and the diameter of the giant component.

We define such union in the following way. Let $$G=(V, E)$$ be a random hyperbolic graph. Let edges $$e\in E(G)$$ be labelled $uv$ for $$u<v$$ and $$u, v\in V(G)$$ connected. For a collection of $$k$$ graphs with the same labelling and number of vertices, we define the union graph $$U$$ as:

$$U(V, E)=\left(V, \bigcup_{i\in k}E(G_i) \right)$$

{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/model.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}

We have observed that the curves defined by the $$k$$-core size indicate that the sizes of $$k$$-cores increase following a sigmoid growth. Those cores with smaller $k$ value grow more rapidly than those with greater $k$. This is explained through the degree distribution of RHG, known to be a power law. For greater $$k$$ values, the $$k$$-core is smaller since few vertices have large degrees, and to build such great negihborhoods by union is slow.
